'\" t
.\" UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH "Read Me" ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.so etc/version.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.SH NAME
ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs \- UCSD p\[hy]System file system
.XX "" "The README file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs\fP package is a collection of tools for
manipulating and mounting UCSD p\[hy]System disk images.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH ARCHIVE SITE
The latest version of
.I ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs
is available on the Web from:
.RS 4m
.TS
tab(;);
l l s
l l l.
URL:;http://ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs.sourceforge.net/
File:;ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs\[hy]\*(v).README;# Description, from the tar file
File:;ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs\[hy]\*(v).lsm;# Description, LSM format
File:;ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs\[hy]\*(v).tar.gz;# the complete source
File:;ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs\[hy]\*(v).pdf;# Reference Manual
.TE
.RE
.br
.ne 1i
.SH BUILDING ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs
Full instructions for building
.I ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs
may be found in the
.I BUILDING
file included in this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.I ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.PP
This program is free software;
you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
either version 3 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
It should be in the
.I LICENSE
file included with this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l l l.
Peter Miller;E\[hy]Mail:;pmiller@opensource.org.au
\f(CW/\e/\e*\fP;WWW:;http://miller.emu.id.au/pmiller/
.TE
.br
.bp
.SH RELEASE NOTES
.XX "" "Release Notes"
This section details the various features and bug fixes of the various
releases.
.so etc/new.so
