'\" t
.\"
.\" UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_mkfs
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_mkfs \- create new UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk images
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_mkfs(1)" "create new UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk images"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
program is used to
create new UCSD p\[hy]System disk image files.
.PP
While the \f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1) command understands IMD and TD0
disk image formats for reading, it is not possible at this time to for
\f[I]ucsdpsys_mkfs\fP(1) to create or \f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1) to modify
these disk image formats.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-A\fP \f[I]name\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-architecture=\fP\f[I]name\fP
This option is used to specify the microprocessor of the host
system.  This, in turn, implies the byte sex of the file system to be
created.  The usual names are accepted, \f[I]e.g.\fP \[lq]pdp11\[rq],
\[lq]6502\[rq], \[lq]6800\[rq], \f[I]etc\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-B\fP \f[I]number\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-size=\fP\f[I]number\fP
.RS
This option may be used to specify the size of the disk image,
in kilobytes (KB = 1024 bytes).
Defaults to 140 if not specified, the size of an Apple Pascal floppy.
.PP
Other common sizes are 800KB for 5.25" disks,
and 1440KB for PC 3.5" floppies.
.PP
You may specify B, K and M suffixes to indicate bytes, kilobytes (2**10)
and megabytes (2**20).
.PP
The maximum possible addressable size is 16MB (however, the limit of 77
files, and no subdirectories, makes it unlikely that a 16MB disk image
would be useful).
It is an error to specify a size greater than 16MB.
The size must be a multiple of 4KB.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-b\fP \f[I]filename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-boot=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
This option may be used to set the boot blocks.
The named file is expected to be raw binary (1KiB).
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-debug\fP
Increase debugging level.  Only of interest to developers.
.TP 8n
\fB\-i\fP
This is a synonym for \f[CW]\-\-interleave=apple\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-interleave=\fP\f[I]name\fP
.RS
Interleave the sectors in the style given.
Known interleave patterns include:
.TP 4n
apple
The interleave pattern that Apple ][ Pascal used.
.TP 4n
pdp
.br
The interleave pattern that PDP\[hy]11 used.
.TP 4n
none
No interleave.  This is the default.
.TP 4n
help
Print a list of known interleave pattern names
.PP
Name are case\[hy]\f[B]in\fPsensitive.
All other names will result in a diagnostic error being issued.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-L\fP \f[I]string\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-label=\fP\f[I]string\fP
This option may be used to specify the name of the volume.  Defaults to
something random, but probably unique, starting with "V".  There is a
size limit of 7 characters, the label will be truncated if it is longer
than this.
.TP 8n
\fB\-t\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-twin\fP
This option may be used to ask for two copies of the directory
meta\[hy]data to be stored, not just one.  This will not be used by
\f[I]ucsdpsys_fsck\fP(1), but it will be kept up\[hy]to\[hy]date by all of the
disk access methods.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_fsck\fP(1)
check a disk image
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
Manipulate a disk image.  Is able to get, put and remove individual
files, or whole directories.
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_mount\fP(1)
mount a disk image
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
