'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_text
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_text \- translate UCSD p\[hy]System text files
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_text(1)" "translate UCSD p\[hy]System text files"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n)\fP \fB\-d\fP [ \fI\-option\fP... ][ \fIfilename\fP... ]
.br
\fB\*(n)\fP \fB\-e\fP [ \fI\-option\fP... ][ \fIfilename\fP... ]
.br
\fB\*(n)\fP \fB\-V\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to translate UCSD p\[hy]System text files to
and from Unix text files.
.PP
If no files are named on the command line, the standard input will be
translated and written on the standard output.
.PP
Any files named on the command line will be translated \fIin situ\fP.  A
temporary output file will be in the same directory as each file being
translated; the file system will need enough extra space to be able
to hold the temporary files, until they are moved back over the input
files.  No backup copies of the inputs are kept.
.PP
The results are undefined if you attempt to use this command on binary
data files.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
.B \-d
.TP 8n
.B \-\-decode
This option is used to translate files from UCSD p\[hy]System text format to
Unix text format.
.TP 8n
.B \-e
.TP 8n
.B \-\-encode
This option is used to translate files from Unix text format to UCSD
p\[hy]System text format.
.TP 8n
.B \-N
.TP 8n
.B \-\-nul
.RS
There is a bug in the UCSD compiler.  It will report error 400 (invalid
character on line) if a line of text ends \fIexactly\fP at the end of
the block.
.PP
Interestingly, the editor is capable of reading text files with
completely filled 1KB blocks, but never writes them out.
.PP
By default, the encode (\fB\-e\fP) option guarantees that there will
be at least one NUL (0x00) character at the end of each 1KB block.  The
\fB\-N\fP option says not to bother.
.RE
.TP 8n
.B \-t
.TP 8n
.B \-\-tabs
.RS
When decoding the default is to use tabs to replace leading spaces on
a line (tabs are assumed to be 8 characters wide).  When used with
\fB\-d\fP, this option says not to use tabs.
.PP
When encoding the default is to use two byte sequences (0x10 \fInn\fP)
to replace leading spaces on a line.  When used with \fB\-e\fP, this
option says not to use tabs.
.RE
.TP 8n
.B \-V
.TP 8n
.B \-\-version
Print the version of the \fI\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
manipulate UCSD p\[hy]System disk images
.TP 8n
\f[I]ucsdpsys_text\fP(5)
format of UCSD p\[hy]System text files
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
