'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_umount
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_umount \- unmount UCSD p\[hy]System filesystems
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_umount(1)" "unmount UCSD p\[hy]System filesystems"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n)\fP \fImount\[hy]point\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-V\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to
unmount a file system mounted by the \fIucsdpsys_mount\fP(1) command.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
.br
Print the version of the \fI\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIfusermount\fP(1)
umount FUSE file systems
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_mount\fP(1)
mount UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk images.
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
