'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_interleave
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_interleave \- decode interleaved UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_interleave(1)" \
    "decode interleaved UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n) \-d \-T\fP\f[I]name\fP \f[I]infile\fP \f[I]outfile\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-e \-T\fP\f[I]name\fP \f[I]infile\fP \f[I]outfile\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-V\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[I]\*(n)\fP program is used to read a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image
and decode it into a new uninterleaved filesystem image file.
It is also possible to do the reverse.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-debug\fP
Increase debug level.  Only of interest to developers.
.TP 8n
\fB\-d\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-decode\fP
read a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image
and decode it into a new \f[B]un\f[P]interleaved filesystem image file.
.TP 8n
\fB\-e\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-encode\fP
read a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image
and encode it into a new interleaved filesystem image file.
.TP 8n
\fB\-T\fP \f[I]name\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-type=\fP\f[I]name\fP
.RS
This option is used to specify the type of interleaving in question.
Known formats are:
.TP 8n
apple
The symmetric interleaving used by the Apple ][ Pascal system.
.TP 8n
pdp
The offset and asymmetric interleaved format used by the PDP11 (?) system.
.TP 8n
guess
For decode \f[I]only\fP, it is possible to have the \fI\*(n)\fP command
attempt to guess the interleaving, using the same method as the
\f[I]ucsdpsys_mount\fP(1) and \f[I]ucsdpsys_disk\fP(1) programs.  This
is particularly useful for decoding weird disk images into uninterleaved
raw disk images.  This only works if the disk image is of a UCSD
p\[hy]System disk, it can't guess the interleave for any other type of disk
image.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the \f[I]\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
