'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_rt11
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_rt11 \- extract files from RT\[hy]11 disk images
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_rt11(1)" "extract files from RT\[hy]11 disk images"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n)\fP \-f \f[I]disk\[hy]image\fP \-g \f[I]filename\fP
.br
\fB\*(n)\fP \-f \f[I]disk\[hy]image\fP \-l
.br
\fB\*(n) \-\-version\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to extract fiels from RT\[hy]11 disk images.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fP \f[I]filename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-file=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
The name of the file containing the disk image (usually coms as a pair
of \f[CW].dir\fP and \f[CW].files\fP files, name either half).
.TP 8n
\fB\-g\fP \f[I]filename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-get=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
.RS
This option may be used to extract a file from the disk image.  The
filename is case\[hy]\f[B]in\fPsensitive; the file in the disk image is
always upper\[hy]case, the Unix file it writes is always lower\[hy]case.
When possible, the extracted file's modification time will be set to
match the date stamp in the disk image.
.RE
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-l\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-list\fP
This option may be used to request a directory listing.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the \fI\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.TP 8n
\fB\-x\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-extract\[hy]all\fP
Extract all of the files into the currect directory.
All extracted file's names with be lower\[hy]case.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
