'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_mount
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_mount \- mount a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_mount(1)" "mount a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I filename
.I directory
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
All files accessible in a Unix system are arranged in one big tree,
the file hierarchy, rooted at \fB/\fP.  These files can be spread
out over several devices.  The \fI\*(n)\fP command serves to attach
a UCSD p\[hy]System disk image to the big file tree.
.SS Disk Formats
At present, only the Apple ][ Pascal disk format is understood for
reading and writing, however it is simple to add more formats in future.
.so man/man1/z_format.so
.SS Umount When Finish
To umount the file system when you are done with it, use the
.RS
\f[CW]ucsdpsys_umount\fP \fIdirectory\fP
.RE
command.
.SS Concurrent Writes
The original p\[hy]System had difficulty writing to more than on file at time.
This file system
uses the Buffer Gap algorithm (a common implementation for text editors)
to establish a gap for write to be performed within,
compacting file automatically when necessary.
While you have a single file open for writing, this is very efficient.
.PP
If you have two files open for writing, this file system can cope, but
the constant block shuffling to obtain gaps in which to write two (or
more) file simultaneously will affect performance.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-debug\fP
Turn on internal debugging.
Specifying this option more than once increases the verbosity.
.TP 8n
\fB\-d\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-fuse\-debug\fP
Turn on FUSE (libfuse) debugging.
Only interesting to \fI\*(n)\fP(1) developers.
Implies the \fB\-f\fP options.
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-foreground\fP
Execute the filesystem in the foreground.
Usually a daemon process is spawned,
and the \fI\*(n)\fP(1) command returns immediately.
.TP 8n
\fB\-o\fP \fIstring\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-options=\fP\fIstring\fP
One or \fImount\fP(1) options, separated by commas.
This option may be given more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-r\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-read\-only\fP
Mount the file system read\[hy]only.
.TP 8n
\fB\-t\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-text\fP
Convert text files between Unix and UCSD formats on\[hy]the\[hy]fly.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the
.I \*(n)
program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIfusermount\fP(1)
mount FUSE file systems
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_fsck\fP(1)
Check the integrity of UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk images.
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_mkfs\fP(1)
create new empty UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk images.
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_umount\fP(1)
unmount UCSD p\[hy]System filesystems
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
