'\" t
.\"     UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\"     Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2010 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_fsck
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_fsck \- verify and repair UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem images
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_fsck(1)" "verify and repair UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem images"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR disk\[hy]image
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to verify and repair UCSD p\[hy]System
filesystem disk images.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-debug\fP
Inclease debug level.
Probably only of interest to file system developers.
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-fix\fP
This option causes the file system to be fixed,
without this the file system will be checked but not repaired.
.TP 8n
\fB\-r\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-read\[hy]only\fP
Open the disk image read\[hy]only.
It will be checked but not repaired.
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the \fI\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_disk\fP(1)
manipulate a disk image
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_mount\fP(1)
mount a disk image
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
