'\" t
.\"
.\" UCSD p-System filesystem in user space
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010, 2011 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) ucsdpsys_disk
.TH \*(n) 1 ucsd\[hy]psystem\[hy]fs "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
ucsdpsys_disk \- manipulate files on a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image
.if require_index \{
.XX "ucsdpsys_disk(1)" \
    "manipulate files on a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem image"
.\}
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-l\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-g\fP \fIfiles\[hy]to\[hy]get\fP...
.br
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-p\fP \fIfiles\[hy]to\[hy]put\fP...
.br
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-r\fP \fIfiles\[hy]to\[hy]remove\fP...
.br
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-k\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-f\fP \fIdisk\[hy]image\fP \fB\-\-system\-volume\fP
.br
\fB\*(n) \-V\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP program is used to
manipulate the contents of a UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk image.
.PP
Features include
.TP 2n
\[bu]
Get single files from the disk image,
with automatic text file translation.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
Put single files into the disk image,
with automatic text file translation.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
Get all files from a disk image into a directory, with a single command,
with automatic text file translation.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
Put all files from a directory into a disk image, with a single command,
with automatic text file translation.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
Remove files from a disk image.
.TP 2n
\[bu]
You can crunch a disk image; that is, you can move all of the files as
close to the start of the disk image as possible.
(Also known as \fB\-\-squeeze\fP or \fB\-\-defragment\fP.)
.TP 2n
\[bu]
List all of the files in a disk image.
You can select the sort criterion.
.so man/man1/z_format.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.\" ----------  A  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-A\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-all\fP
By default, files with names that start with a dot (\[lq]\f[CW].\fP\[rq])
are ignored when you \fB\-\-put\fP a whole directory.
This option says to include files with names that start with a dot.
.TP 8n
\fB\-B\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-all\[hy]binary\fP
This option requests that all file transfers be binary, without text
encoding or decoding.  If you happen to transfer a text file this way,
you can use the \fIucsdpsys_text\fP(1) command to translate the text
files afterwards.
.\" ----------  B  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-b\fP \f[I]filename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-boot=\fP\f[I]filename\fP
This option may be used to obtain the boot blocks (with the
\fB\-\-get\fP option) or set the boot blocks (with the \fB\-\-put\fP
option).  The named file is expected to be raw binary (exactly 1 KiB).
.\" ----------  C  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  D  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-D\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-debug\fP
Increase debug level.  Only of interest to developers.
.\" ----------  E  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  F  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-f\fP \fIfilename\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-file=\fP\fIfilename\fP
The name of the file containing the UCSD p\[hy]System filesystem disk image.
.TP 8n
\fB\-g\fP \fIfilename\fP...
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-get\fP \fIfilename\fP...
Get the named files from the disk image and write them to Unix,
using the same file name.
Naming a directory will result in the whole directory being transferred.
Note that text file formats will \fInot\fP be translated.
.\" ----------  G  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  H  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  I  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  J  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  K  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-k\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-crunch\fP
Move all of the files as far towards the start of the disk image as
possible.  This will maximize the space available for writing by the
(much dumber) UCSD p\[hy]System.  You can use this option in combination
with the \fB\-\-put\fP or \fB\-\-remove\fP options.
It is common to combine this option with the \fB\-\-wipe\[hy]unused\fP option,
see below.
.\" ----------  L  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-l\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-list\fP
.RS
Obtain a listing of the volume's files.
(Used twice, it will print the block numbers as well.)
.PP
By default, files are sorted by start block (the order they appear in
the disk image).
To sort by a different criterion, use the \fB\-\-sort\fP option; see below.
.RE
.\" ----------  M  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  N  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  O  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  P  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-p\fP \fIfilename\fP...
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-put\fP \fIfilename\fP...
Put the named files into the disk image, reading from the Unix file of
the same name.
Naming a directory will result in the whole directory being transferred.
Note that text file formats will \fInot\fP be translated.
.\" ----------  Q  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  R  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-r\fP \fIfilename\fP...
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-remove=\fP\fIfilename\fP...
.RS
Remove the named files from the filesystem image.
.PP
Actually, this just removes the directory entry.  To completely erase
the file contents as well, use the \fB\-\-wipe\[hy]unused\fP option;
see below.
.RE
.\" ----------  S  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-system\-volume\fP
.RS
This option may be used to test whether or not a disk image can
be considered a system volume, by testing for the presence of the
\[lq]\f[CW]SYSTEM.COMPILER\fP\[rq], \[lq]\f[CW]SYSTEM.EDITOR\fP\[rq],
\[lq]\f[CW]SYSTEM.FILER\fP\[rq] and \[lq]\f[CW]SYSTEM.PASCAL\fP\[rq]
files.  If all are present, it is probably a system volume.
.PP
This option prints no output.  It is silent, because it is intended
for use in shell scripts and the like.  The results are in the exit
status: EXIT_SUCCESS (zero) if it is a system volume, or EXIT_FAILURE
(non\[hy]zero) if it is not.
.RE
.\" -----------
.TP 8n
\fB\-s\fP \f[I]name\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-sort=\fP\f[I]name\fP
.RS
This option may be used to change the criterion by which the files are
sorted in a directory listing.
.TP 4n
block
Sort the files according to their initial block number,
the order in which they appear on the disk.
This is the default, for compatibility with the original UCSD system.
.TP 4n
name
Sort the directory entries by the file name.
.TP 4n
date
Sort the directory entries by the date last modified,
or by name if that is not sufficient.
.TP 4n
kind
Sort the directory entries by the kind of file they are,
or by name if that is not sufficient.
.PP
Any other sort name is an error.
.RE
.\" ----------  T  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-t\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-auto\[hy]text\fP
Convert text files between Unix and UCSD text formats automatically, in
the same way as the \f[I]ucsdpsys_mount\fP(1) command.
.\" ----------  U  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  V  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-V\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of the \fI\*(n)\fP program being executed.
.\" ----------  W  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\fB\-w\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-wipe\[hy]unused\fP
.RS
This option may be used to make sure that all blocks not accounted for
in the directory are reset to zero, wiping any \[lq]left over\[rq]
content.  Not only is this more secure (things you didn't intent to stay
on the disk don't) but the disk images compress better, too.
The boot blocks are unaffected.
.PP
If there are any files that are not exact multiples of 512 bytes long,
the unused portions of their last blocks are also reset to zero.
Code files and text files are always multiples of 512 bytes long,
but other data files can have short last blocks.
.PP
When combined with other disk\[hy]altering options,
this option is the last applied to the disk image.
This is useful when combined with the \fB\-\-crunch\fP option.
.RE
.\" ----------  X  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  Y  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  Z  ---------------------------------------------------------
.PP
All other options will produce a diagnostic error.
.so man/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_mkfs\fP(1)
create a new UCSD p\[hy]System disk image
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_mount\fP(1)
mount a UCSD p\[hy]System disk image as a Linux file system
.TP 8n
\fIucsdpsys_text\fP(1)
translate to and from the UCSD p\[hy]System text file format
.so man/man1/z_copyright.so
